a heavily armored tank is nice but
wouldn't you want to be able to stop a
threat before it ever hit you and it'd
be better if you could do this without
ever having to worry about it by the way
the answer to both of these questions is
yes and you geniuses and Israel military
industries have figured out how to do it
at this top-secret location on the
shores of the Mediterranean I've come to
check out a brand new advanced
protection system for military vehicles
this system is so cutting-edge that it's
only just completed testing and we get
to see it in action before it enters
service this is iron fist and it knocks
RPGs out of existence
the Iron Fist is Israel's latest active
defense system designed notches for
tanks but also for lightweight more
versatile vehicles including Humvees and
trucks its job is to detect incoming
threats and put them out of commission
for good it may not look any more
menacing than say an automatic tennis
ball launcher but I think that's kind of
what's cool about it after three decades
of development this system has arrived
to protect military vehicles and other
sensitive assets
you can only add so much weight to a
vehicle to protect it what's needed is
out-of-the-box thinking I believe that
now in order to extend the entire threat
spectrum against mainly against tank
they think should weight around 200 tons
metric tons it's impossible you know
there is no bridge there is no Road that
this kind of vehicle will be able to
perform the vehicle actually has to be
smaller much more versatile and be able
to perform your task
the Iron Fist identifies the type of
projectile by its path and shape then
calculates exactly what it needs to do
to crush it it handles the threat in two
ways
plan a is the soft kill approach using
jamming devices to divert anti-tank
guided missiles the jam missiles either
fall short were veer away if it gets
past the jamming system the iron fist
moves into Plan B in a split second we
found out that we have a lot of
different missiles and it was nearly
impossible to introduce so many jammers
and the mechanism and then we made a
shift and decided to combine the soft
kill and the hard kill meaning how to
distract the incoming threat regardless
of who he is and what type of threat it
is this hard kill approach is achieved
by launching an explosive projectile
which seeks out and intercepts the
threat if it's a RPG or tank round the
system immediately will move toward this
hard kill a capability will launch an
interceptor and will intercept the
incoming strengths but it's not a
head-on strike the projectile explodes
and releases a shockwave that engulfs
the threat and destroys it it does this
without detonating the warhead simply
knocking it right out of the sky which
minimizes collateral damage the idea of
the system is of course to knock out the
the incoming threat but we're using it
without actually a meeting or without
any physical engagement with the threat
there is a volume of lethality to our
interceptor and the system the
Interceptor know exactly and we are
talking about milliseconds I know is
exactly where to initiate its air water
Iron Fist is a fully automatic system
once the troops enter a combat area they
turn it on and it stays on the radar
constantly scans a full 360 degrees
ready to take on any hostile threat
the most likely they did the crew
probably will look in the front of the
vehicle and won't pay attention to a
hidden kind of RPG guy and the system
automatically will detect it and will
destroy the incoming threat the concept
of iron fist is all about providing an
invisible shield around the vehicle it's
actively looking out for multiple
incoming threats some traveling as fast
as a mile per second there's not many
things on earth that can react that fast
has unique sensors that can contribute
to our routine mission and on the other
hand it's a very light system and it
will save your life at the end of the
day
IMI has successfully tested the iron
fist against a variety of threats this
thing may not float like a butterfly or
sting like a bee but it does pulverize
rockets this is the rpg-7 it's old
cheap but very deadly it's the most
prolific rocket-propelled grenade on the
face of the planet
it's shoulder-launched and capable of
penetrating a foot of armor plate making
it one of the biggest threats on the
battlefield
so will Iron Fist be able to drop it to
the canvas
I know it sounds almost too good to be
true now it's time to see it in action
once iron fist is activated the radar
should detect any incoming attack an RPG
is fast and it can be fired from close
range
so for Iron Fist to work it needs a
lightning quick reflexes
iron fist launches its projectile to
intercept the incoming grenade
the best defense is a great offense
the APC is untouched in fraction of
second we can counter-attack due to the
unique capabilities of this particular
system
iron fist can deal with all types of
shoulder-launched rifle grenades
anti-tank guided missiles high-explosive
tank rounds and the most challenging of
all a kinetic energy penetrator it
provides an invisible and impenetrable
shield around any vehicle